Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT):
	A distributed ledger is a type of data structure which resides across multiple computer devices, generally spread across locations or regions.
	Components:
		data model - current state of the ledger
		language of transactions - changes the ledger state
		protocol - consensus

Blockchains:
	"A blockchain is a peer-to-peer distributed ledger forged by consensus, combined with a system for "smart contracts" and other assistive technologies."
	it consist of two components:
		Smart contracts
		Consensus

Block:
	block consist of below things:
		reference to previous block
		The proof of work (nounce)
		timestamp
		Markle tree root of transaction
		
Merkle Tree:
	binary hashes tree
	anti-temper mechanism to ensure larger data has not been changed
	each block refers to previous block and estblish a tree strecture in hierarchy mannger. so when someone wants to chang a value in particluar block needs to go though all previous blocks and change until genesis block

Transactions:	
	The record of an event, cryptographically secured with a digital signature, that is verified, ordered, and bundled together into blocks, form the transactions in the blockchain
	
Differences between Blockchains and Databases:
	blockchain is write only strecture, there is no administrator permission to edit blocks. these are decenterlized applications
	In database administractor can modify data or strecture of the data. centerlized applications

Type of blockchains:
public (Bitcoin or Ethereum) and permissioned enterprize blockchains(Hyperledger)


Peer-to-Peer Network Architecture:
	Usually current technologies built based on client-server architecture. but blockchain is build on peer to peer 

Immutability of Data:

Smart Contracts:
Smart contracts are simply computer programs that execute predefined actions when certain conditions within the system are met

Consensus Algorithms:
	achieve current state of data on the system

Proof of Work (PoW)
The Proof of Work consensus algorithm involves solving a computational challenging puzzle in order to create new blocks in the Bitcoin blockchain. 

Proof of Stake (PoS):
The Proof of Stake algorithm is a generalization of the Proof of Work algorithm. they validate the transactions to earn a transaction fee
node selection  depends on the amount of stake held

Proof of Elapsed Time (PoET):
Developed by Intel, the Proof of Elapsed Time consensus algorithm emulates the Bitcoin-style Proof of Work. 
PoET consensus algorithm is a hybrid of a random lottery and first-come-first-serve basis.


Simplified Byzantine Fault Tolerance (SBFT):
The basic idea involves a single validator who bundles proposed transactions and forms a new block. 
the validator is a known party
Consensus is achieved as a result of a minimum number of other nodes in the network ratifying the new block
the number of nodes that must reach consensus is 2f+1 in a system containing 3f+1 nodes, where f is the number of faults in the system
 
Proof of Authority (PoA):
 It uses a set of 'authorities', which are designated nodes that are allowed to create new blocks and secure the ledger.
 
 
Other blockchain technologies:
chain core(Chain.com) - for financial service institutions
Corda R3 - leagal agreements between businesses
Quorum (JP Morgan) - data privacy, voting based consesnus algorithm


IOTA:
the platform entails a generalization of the blockchain protocol (the technology called Tangle) that sits at the backend of the IOTA platform).

 




	
	